# WarehouseRumble
Top-down Shooter
# SupermarketGame
Top-down 3rd person shooter

This Supermarket Game is a top-down 3rd person shooter that I and two of my colleagues developed for a Game Design class at Jacksonville State University. This assignment had the very simple purpose of putting together a group of students to collaborate on developing a game. The IDE used by the three of us to develop this game was Game Maker Studio 2. During the development of the game the three of us worked on different aspects of the game and it was my responsibility to develop the logic of the player character and enemies.
In this game the player is trapped in a supermarket fending off attackers and must scavenge weapons dropped by defeated attackers to survive. One of the enemies also holds the key to the next level and progression cannot be made until this key is found. The player object was the first object I added to the game. I started with basic controls of the player and set the movement keys for ‘wsad’, and the player look direction toward the mouse pointer. The player starts with a pistol and when enemies drop weapons the player will pick them up and switch to them automatically when he runs over them. Each weapon has a different rate of fire and damage. There is even a rocket launcher, which does tremendous damage over a large area. When fired each weapon also kicks back and the projectiles have a small random deviation in the angle in which they are fired.

Using inheritance, I was able to easily create several enemies with different behaviors for the player to fight. The zombie parent object keeps the basic behaviors, such as, what to do when hit by a player projectile, item drops, how to move to the player. The group of enemies consist of a tank, an attacker with a bat, enemies that shoot, and an enemy that throws items, cans in this game, at the player. The tank was a bit tricky to implement. While he is obviously the slowest and strongest of the enemies, he has a special move condition that causes him to lunge at the player when he gets within range. The tank also had a timer so he could not continually lunge at the player. The attacker with a bat, probably the most straight forward of enemies, just runs at the player with a fixed speed trying to hit him. The enemies that shoot will attempt to stay within a certain distance of the player and shoot at a fixed rate. The enemies that throw projectiles follow similar rules to the shooting enemies but they will stay slightly closer to the player. These enemies will also taunt the player with phrases appearing above their heads when they throw items. The final object is a spawner for the enemies. The spawners have code creates enemies within a certain distance from the spawner and also prevents enemies from spawning when the player is too close, so the player won’t see the enemies appear from nowhere. The spawners also randomizes what enemy spawns and stop spawning when the player is too far away. Since the game has a maximum number of enemies it will spawn, it will keep track of this and if the player gets too far from an enemy, they will be despawned.

While the game isn’t a triple A game, the end results are a well-rounded game with variety and lots fun. I learned a great deal about using parents and children. If my team and I would have had more time I would have liked to include a difficulty system and inventory so players could have more than one weapon.
